#summary How to install releases of the IAML Eclipse Plugin
#labels Featured

=Introduction=

The IAML plugin is an Eclipse plugin that provides a visual editor for the modelling of Internet applications, as an implementation of our [http://openiaml.org research project]. Following our research emphasis on iterative development, we hope that regularly releasing our plugin will help us focus development and gain valuable feedback from the development community.

*NOTE:* These instructions are cryptic and hard to follow until [http://code.google.com/p/iaml/issues/detail?id=2 issue 2] is resolved. Good luck!

=Requirements=

  # Eclipse 3.5 Galileo
    * _plus UML 2.0 feature for OAW_
  # GMF 2.2
  # [http://www.eclipse.org/gmt/oaw/download/ OpenArchitectureWare 4.3]
    * Update site: http://www.openarchitectureware.org/updatesite/milestone/site.xml
  # [http://code.google.com/p/iacleaner/ iacleaner 0.2]
    * Update site: http://iacleaner.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/org.openiaml.iacleaner.update/site.xml
  # Possibly others: [http://code.google.com/p/iaml/issues/detail?id=2 to be determined]

For testing:

  # [http://www.eclipticalsoftware.com/emf/xpath/ XPath Support for EMF]
    * Update site: http://www.eclipticalsoftware.com/updates

These requirements may be installed through the [http://download.eclipse.org/releases/galileo/ Galileo update site]. (They also might be installed with the installation process.)

=Getting Started=

  # In Eclipse, select _Help_ > _Software Updates_ > _Find and Install..._
  # Add the following remote site:
{{{
Name: IAML Plugin
URL:  http://iaml.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/org.openiaml.update/
}}}
  # Select the _IAML Modelling Platform_ feature to install
  # Once it has been installed, restart Eclipse

Now that you have got the IAML plugin installed, you can run through the [Tutorial] to learn how to use the plugin to generate your first modelled Internet application:

  # Create a new blank project
  # Create a new IAML model by selecting _New..._ > _Examples_ > _Iaml Diagram_
  # You can now edit the _iaml_diagram_ to create your Internet application visually

=Miscellaneous=

You may run out of memory when using the modelling platform within a Sun VM, in particular PermGen memory; this is mostly due to the Drools engine requiring a 7MB compiler in PermGen memory. It will depend on your system, but you may need to add the following lines to your _eclipse.ini_:

{{{
-vmargs
-Xms384m
-Xmx640m
-XX:PermSize=512M
-XX:MaxPermSize=512M
}}}

The parameters above work on a system with 2GB memory. As part of [http://code.google.com/p/iaml/issues/detail?id=2 issue 2], comprehensive system requirements will be investigated.

==Runtime Library==

Since r888, IAML provides a separate runtime library plugin which can be aliased to a virtual folder to improve performance. To enable this, you will need to set up an alias on your web server to the IAML client-side runtime libraries (similar to Symfony's /sf virtual folder):

{{{
# iaml library include (client-side)
Alias "/iaml-runtime" "C:/.../org.openiaml.model.runtime/src/web"
<Directory "C:/.../org.openiaml.model.runtime/src/web">
   Options Indexes FollowSymLinks
   DirectoryIndex index.html index.php default.html default.php
   AllowOverride All
   Allow from All   
</Directory>
}}}

To make your project use these libraries, set "include_runtime" to "false" in your project properties, and set "config_runtime" and "config_web" appropriately. See: [IamlProjectProperties]