#summary Summary of model version 0.6.

[Model0_5 < 0.5] | *0.6* | [Model0_7 0.7 >]

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

=Model 0.5.1=

*Released [http://journals.jevon.org/users/jevon-phd/entry/19835 May 2010]*

This adds support for OpenID and RSS feeds. There has also been a lot of metamodel refactoring, to clean up the metamodel. Many [http://code.google.com/p/iaml/issues/list?can=1&q=label%3AMilestone-Release0.5.1 issues have been fixed].

==New Data Types==

===iamlOpenID===

A URL that is an OpenID URL. This is always valid on the client-side, but only valid on the server-side once the user has authenticated with the given URL. This follows the specifications in [http://openid.net/specs/openid-authentication-1_1.html OpenID v1.1]; for example, it supports delegating URLs.

When rendered as an [http://openiaml.org/model/InputTextField InputTextField], an "Authenticate" button is provided, which will allow the server to authenticate the user.

==Changed Elements==

===Frame===

A [http://openiaml.org/model/Frame Frame] can now have different rendering targets. By default, it will generate HTML.

If the rendering target is set to RSS2_0, then the content will be rendered as a [http://cyber.law.harvard.edu/rss/rss.html RSS 2.0 feed] instead. This is achieved by iterating over any [http://openiaml.org/model/DomainIterator DomainIterators] in the frame.

===EntryGate===

An [http://openiaml.org/model/EntryGate EntryGate] can now require a Label to be set (and valid) within the same Scope. For example, if the Label is of type `iamlOpenIDURL`, then the user must provide and authenticate a valid OpenID URL before the Scope can be accessed.

==Changes==

  # Meta-model changes  
    * Refactoring of Domain Modelling elements (issue 178)
    * DecisionOperation and DecisionCondition merged into DecisionNode (issue 160)
    * CompositeWire and SingleWire removed (issue 189)
    * FieldValue properties are now stored in an explicit containment reference (issue 170)
  # Code generation
    * A new domain modelling runtime framework (issue 178), which improves code generation time significantly
    * Various performance and size improvements to code generation
  # Development
    * Diagram editors are now completely removed from version control (issue 175)
  # Documentation
    * The documentation has not been fully migrated yet, nor all of the example models migrated yet, but this will be completed before 0.6.

=Model 0.5.2=

*Released [http://journals.jevon.org/users/jevon-phd/entry/19848 July 2010]*

This minor release adds autocomplete wires, and refreshes the rendering of elements in the diagram editors. There is also a small amount of metamodel refactoring, along with other [http://code.google.com/p/iaml/issues/list?can=1&q=label%3AMilestone-Release0.5.2 issue fixes].

==New Elements==

===Autocomplete Wire===

An [http://openiaml.org/model/AutocompleteWire Autocomplete Wire] allows for the easy creation of an autocompletion visual element.

==Changed Elements==

===Visible Thing===

All [http://openiaml.org/model/VisibleThing VisibleThings] now support an additional property, rather than just [http://openiaml.org/model/InputTextField InputTextFields]: _currentInput_. If supported at runtime, this represents input that the user has provided but before it has been committed.

It also adds the [http://openiaml.org/model/EventTrigger Event] _onInput_, which is fired whenever the _currentInput_ has changed. Not all model elements support _onInput_ and it is not guaranteed to fire consistently.

===Action Edge===

To unify better with the desired ECA style, Actions have been renamed to [http://openiaml.org/model/ActionEdge ActionEdges].

The differences between [http://openiaml.org/model/RunAction RunAction] and [http://openiaml.org/model/NavigateAction NavigateAction] have been removed, and the two elements have been unified into [http://openiaml.org/model/ActionEdge ActionEdge].

==Unified Design==

The style and design of model elements has been refreshed, and unified according to the _Physics of Notation_ by Moody (issue 195). The wide range of colours that were in use before have been unified down into seven; full details on this change will be in the thesis.

==Changes==

  # Meta-model changes  
    * [http://openiaml.org/model/DomainIterator DomainIterators] and [http://openiaml.org/model/InputForm InputForm] no longer have _fieldValues_ created through model completion.
    * The `javascriptAlert` [http://openiaml.org/model/PrimitiveOperation PrimitiveOperation] has been renamed to `alert` (issue 196)
  # Code generation
    * Duplicate extensions are now found and provided as warnings when developing templates (issue 182)
  # Interface
    * The diagram elements icons have been refreshed (issue 18)
    * A new tool to generate new element IDs has been added; for example, an [http://openiaml.org/model/InputTextField InputTextField] with an ID of `model.1a9b9019af.153` may be renamed to `text1` (issue 86)
  # Documentation
    * The element export script now also exports to SVG, as well as PNG (issue 193)
    * The documentation has not been fully migrated yet, nor all of the example models migrated yet, but this will be completed before 0.6.

=Model 0.5.3=

*Released [http://journals.jevon.org/users/jevon-phd/entry/19886 January 2011]*

This release is mostly bug fixes and other small changes. The metamodel may be changing significantly in the next release (as the thesis requires) so this is an interim release before these changes proceed. Many [http://code.google.com/p/iaml/issues/list?can=1&q=label%3AMilestone-Release0.5.3 improvements have been completed].

There has also been some performance improvements, such as [http://code.google.com/p/iaml/issues/detail?id=210 reducing the size of generated models], [http://code.google.com/p/iaml/source/detail?r=2494 improving Drools rule performance] and [http://code.google.com/p/iaml/source/detail?r=2527 improvements to Modeldoc].

==Changes==

  # Documentation
    * Wrote up a list of sample representations of user interface elements in [InterfaceElements]

=Model 0.6=

  _Currently under development._